-   General questions

    -   Can you tell me a little about yourself?

        This question seems simple, so many people fail to prepare for it, but it's crucial. 
        Here's the deal: Don't give your complete employment (or personal) history. Instead 
        give a pitch—one that’s concise and compelling and that shows exactly why you’re the 
        right fit for the job. Start off with the 2-3 specific accomplishments or experiences 
        that you most want the interviewer to know about, then wrap up talking about how that 
        prior experience has positioned you for this specific role.

    -   How did you hear about the position?

        Another seemingly innocuous question, this is actually a perfect opportunity to stand 
        out and show your passion for and connection to the company. For example, if you found 
        out about the gig through a friend or professional contact, name drop that person, then 
        share why you were so excited about it. If you discovered the company through an event 
        or article, share that. Even if you found the listing through a random job board, share 
        what, specifically, caught your eye about the role.

    -   What do you know about the company?

        Any candidate can read and regurgitate the company’s “About” page. So, when interviewers 
        ask this, they aren't necessarily trying to gauge whether you understand the mission—they 
        want to know whether you care about it. Start with one line that shows you understand the 
        company's goals, using a couple key words and phrases from the website, but then go on to 
        make it personal. Say, “I’m personally drawn to this mission because…” or “I really believe 
        in this approach because…” and share a personal example or two.

    -   Why do you want this job?

        Again, companies want to hire people who are passionate about the job, so you should have 
        a great answer about why you want the position. (And if you don't? You probably should apply 
        elsewhere.) First, identify a couple of key factors that make the role a great fit for you 
        (e.g., “I love customer support because I love the constant human interaction and the satisfaction 
        that comes from helping someone solve a problem"), then share why you love the company (e.g., “I’ve 
        always been passionate about education, and I think you guys are doing great things, so I want 
        to be a part of it”).

    -   Why should we hire you?

        This question seems forward (not to mention intimidating!), but if you're asked it, you're in luck: 
        There's no better setup for you to sell yourself and your skills to the hiring manager. Your job 
        here is to craft an answer that covers three things: that you can not only do the work, you can deliver 
        great results; that you'll really fit in with the team and culture; and that you'd be a better hire than 
        any of the other candidates.

    -   What are your greatest professional strengths?

        When answering this question, interview coach Pamela Skillings recommends being accurate (share your 
        true strengths, not those you think the interviewer wants to hear); relevant (choose your strengths 
        that are most targeted to this particular position); and specific (for example, instead of “people 
        skills,” choose “persuasive communication” or “relationship building”). Then, follow up with an example 
        of how you've demonstrated these traits in a professional setting.

    -   What do you consider to be your weaknesses?

        What your interviewer is really trying to do with this question—beyond identifying any major red flags—is 
        to gauge your self-awareness and honesty. So, “I can't meet a deadline to save my life” is not an option—but 
        neither is “Nothing! I'm perfect!” Strike a balance by thinking of something that you struggle with but that 
        you’re working to improve. For example, maybe you’ve never been strong at public speaking, but you've recently 
        volunteered to run meetings to help you be more comfortable when addressing a crowd.

    -   What is your greatest professional achievement?

        Nothing says “hire me” better than a track record of achieving amazing results in past jobs, so don't be shy 
        when answering this question! A great way to do so is by using the S-T-A-R method: Set up the situation and 
        the task that you were required to complete to provide the interviewer with background context (e.g., “In my 
        last job as a junior analyst, it was my role to manage the invoicing process”), but spend the bulk of your time 
        describing what you actually did (the action) and what you achieved (the result). For example, “In one month, I 
        streamlined the process, which saved my group 10 man-hours each month and reduced errors on invoices by 25%.”

    -   Tell me about a challenge or conflict you've faced at work, and how you dealt with it.

        In asking this question, “your interviewer wants to get a sense of how you will respond to conflict. Anyone can 
        seem nice and pleasant in a job interview, but what will happen if you’re hired and Gladys in Compliance starts 
        getting in your face?” says Skillings. Again, you'll want to use the S-T-A-R method, being sure to focus on how 
        you handled the situation professionally and productively, and ideally closing with a happy ending, like how you 
        came to a resolution or compromise.

    -   If asked this question, be honest and specific about your future goals, but consider this: A hiring manager wants 
        to know a) if you've set realistic expectations for your career, b) if you have ambition (a.k.a., this interview 
        isn't the first time you're considering the question), and c) if the position aligns with your goals and growth. 
        Your best bet is to think realistically about where this position could take you and answer along those lines. And 
        if the position isn’t necessarily a one-way ticket to your aspirations? It’s OK to say that you’re not quite sure 
        what the future holds, but that you see this experience playing an important role in helping you make that decision.

    -   What's your dream job?

        Along similar lines, the interviewer wants to uncover whether this position is really in line with your ultimate 
        career goals. While “an NBA star” might get you a few laughs, a better bet is to talk about your goals and ambitions—
        and why this job will get you closer to them.

    -   Why are you leaving your current job?

        This is a toughie, but one you can be sure you'll be asked. Definitely keep things positive—you have nothing to gain 
        by being negative about your past employers. Instead, frame things in a way that shows that you're eager to take on 
        new opportunities and that the role you’re interviewing for is a better fit for you than your current or last position. 
        For example, “I’d really love to be part of product development from beginning to end, and I know I’d have that opportunity 
        here.” And if you were let go? Keep it simple: “Unfortunately, I was let go,” is a totally OK answer.

    -   Why was there a gap in your employment?

        If you were unemployed for a period of time, be direct and to the point about what you’ve been up to (and hopefully, 
        that’s a litany of impressive volunteer and other mind-enriching activities, like blogging or taking classes). Then, 
        steer the conversation toward how you will do the job and contribute to the organization: “I decided to take a break 
        at the time, but today I’m ready to contribute to this organization in the following ways.”

    -   Can you explain why you changed career paths?

        Don't be thrown off by this question—just take a deep breath and explain to the hiring manager why you've made the 
        career deicions you have. More importantly, give a few examples of how your past experience is transferrable to the 
        new role. This doesn't have to be a direct connection; in fact, it's often more impressive when a candidate can make 
        seemingly irrelevant experience seem very relevant to the role.

    -   How do you deal with pressure or stressful situations?

        "Choose an answer that shows that you can meet a stressful situation head-on in a productive, positive manner and let 
        nothing stop you from accomplishing your goals," says McKee. A great approach is to talk through your go-to stress-reduction 
        tactics (making the world's greatest to-do list, stopping to take 10 deep breaths), and then share an example of a stressful 
        situation you navigated with ease.

    -   What are your salary requirements?

        The #1 rule of answering this question is doing your research on what you should be paid by using sites like Payscale and 
        Glassdoor. You’ll likely come up with a range, and we recommend stating the highest number in that range that applies, based 
        on your experience, education, and skills. Then, make sure the hiring manager knows that you're flexible. You're communicating 
        that you know your skills are valuable, but that you want the job and are willing to negotiate.


-   Money issue:

    If you were making $100,000 and you think this job pays $80,000, you
    can say, "I am fairly flexible and open-minded on the opportunity, so 
    I'd be curious what the position is paying."

    Some other explanations may be:

    -   I'm looking to grow and learn, and I can do that here.
    -   I was earning more, but right now I'm focused on finding the right
        job at the right salary
    -   The quality and solid growth of your organization attract me
    -   Switching into your industry will send my career in a new direction,
        and you'll benefit from my prior experience.
    -   I realize things have changed in terms of what labor rates look like.
    -   The commute to your company is much shorter for me, and the extra
        time with my family is worth more than the salary differential.

-   Why did you quite your job?

    Some example responses:

    -   I quit my job because my supervisor retired. I felt that after many years
        of working in the office, it was time for a change and this seem like the
        ideal time to move on.

    -   I was able to take advantage of early retirement offer due to company 
        downsizing and am ready for a new challange.

    -   I don't have room to grow with my current employer and I'm ready to move on
        to a new challange.

    -   After several years of in my last position, I'm looking for an company where
        I can contribute and grow in a team-oriented environment.

    -   I left my last position in order to spend more time with an ill family member.
        Circumstances have changed and I'm ready for a new challenge.

    -   I was commuting and spending an hour eacy day on travel. I would prefer to be
        close to home.

    -   This position seemed like an excellent match for my skills and experience and 
        I am not able to fully utilize them in my present job.

    -   The company was downsizing and I thought it made sense to seek another position 
        before my job was eliminated.

