Chapter 1 Preface

-   What is data mining

    Data mining is the process of transfering raw data to useful infomation.
    
    Three phases: 1) preprocessing; 2) data mining; 3) postprocessing

-   Problems in data mining

    -   Scalable

        e.g. data is too big to put into the memory.

        We need new software/hardware to store/access/process the data

    -   High dimensional

    -   Complicated data

    -   Data ownership and distribution

    -   Non-tradional analysis

-   Data mining area

    Data mining is the intersect area among: 1) Stastics; 2) AI, Machine Learning, 
    Pattern Recognition; 3) DataBase, Parallel Computing, Distributed Computing

-   Data mining missions

    -   Prediction

        Input:  explanatory variable(or called independent variable)
        Output: target variable(or dependent variable)

    -   Description

        This target is to describe the relationships among data:

        -   Association
        -   Trend
        -   Cluster
        -   Tracking
        -   Anormal

-   Predictive modeling

    The model for prediction. There are two types: 

    1) classfication;

    It is used to predict discrete target variables. E.g. Predict a web user whether he/she will buy books on line. There are only two
    variables: buy or no buy and they are discrete.

    2) regression

    It is used to predict continuous target variables. E.g. predict the future price of a stock.

-   Association Analysis

    It is used to find out strong association among data. E.g. Understand the relationships among different elements in a climat system.

-   Cluster analysis

    It is the task of grouping a set of objects in such a way that objects in the same group (called a cluster) are more similar (in some sense or another)
    to each other than to those in other groups(clusters). E.g. In social networks, clustering may be used to recognize communities within large groups
    of people.

-   Anomaly detection

    This task is to recognize a data that its features are different from other data. E.g. detect credit card fraud.

Chapter 2 Data

-   Some features of data are critical to data mining:

    -   Type
    -   Quality
    -   Easy for preprocessing
    -   Use relationships among data to do analysis

-   Types of Data

    A data set can often be viewed as a collection of data objects. Data objects are described by a number of attributes
    that capture the basic characteristics of an object.

    -   Attributes

        An attribute is a property or characteristic of an object that may vary, either from one object to another
        from one time to another.

    -   Measurement scale

        A measurement scale is a rule(function) that associates a numerical or symbolic value with an attribute
        of an object. E.g. we classify someone as male or female.

    -   The Different Types of an attribute

        1.  Distinctness = and !=
        2.  Order <, <=, >, >=
        3.  Addition + and -
        4.  Multiplication * and /

        Given these properties, we define four types of attributes: nominal, ordinal, interval, and ratio.

        -   More details:

            -   Nomial: The value of a nominal attribute are just different names; i.e., nominal values 
                provide only enough information to distinguish one object from another(=, !=)

                Examples: zip code, employee ID, eye color, gender

                Operations: mode, entropy, contingency, correlation, X.^2 test

            -   Ordinal: The values of an ordinal attribute provide enough information to order objects. (<, >)

                Examples: hardness of minerals{good, better, best}, grades, street numbers

                Operations: median, percentiles, rank correlation, run tests, sign tests.  

            -   Interval: For interval attributes, the differences between values are meaningful, i.e., a unit
                of measurement exists. 

                Examples: calendar dates, temperature in Celsius or Fahrenheit

                Operations: mean, standard deviation, Pearson's correlation, t and F tests.

            -   Ratio: For ratio variables, both differences and ratios are meaningful(*, /)

                Examples: temperature in Kelvin, monetary quantities, counts, age, mass, length, electrical
                current

                Operations: geometric mean, harmonic mean, percent variation

            -   We can also categorize the four attributes into 2:

                Qualitative(Categorical): Nominal, Ordinal
                Quantitative(Numeric): Interval, Ratio
                
                
